Alright.
So in the previous lesson we created a new route for a single job page and we gave it the path slash
jobs, slash results, slash colon ID and that ID represents a dynamic wild card.
It is a small subsection of the path that we can extract within our component.
So let's see how we can do that within our job view component.
This is the top level parent component that we render on that page.
So what I will do here is create some computed properties, so I'll add the computed key and provided
a JavaScript object.
And the reason we're using computed properties, by the way, is because this is data that is based
off something else.
It's based off the route.
It doesn't really make sense to make this part of the components data because it's not something that
is internal to the mechanics of the job view component.
Rather, this is a computed property that should watch the route and produce some kind of value from
it.
So dependent data, derive data, etc. We put it in computer.
So here we define methods and I'll define a method called current job ID, since that is fundamentally
what that section of the URL is supposed to give me the idea of the current job.
So for now let's just console.log our root object.
So this dot root and remember to prefix that root property with a dollar sign.
That's just the part of its name.
That's just the internals of how the View team built it out.
And View requires us to return some kind of value from a computed property or a computed method.
So I'm going to return an arbitrary value.
It doesn't really matter what we return here, but I will just return five.
And then furthermore, we need to use this computed property somewhere in our template.
Otherwise view will never end up running this code and we're never going to see the console.log.
So right here I'm going to write out Job Page for Job and I'm going to provide my curly brace syntax
and I'm going to write the name of my computed property which is current job ID.
Again, we do not need to invoke that method, we just provide its name and view will invoke it automatically.
Our goal here is to simply see what the root object looks like.
But by the end of the lesson, our goal, of course, is to display the actual job ID, which we're
going to get from the URL from this section.
So let me head back to the browser.
Let us navigate to that page.
Let me open up my chrome console and let us navigate to slash jobs, slash results.
And at this point, it doesn't matter what we enter here.
I'm just going to enter five just for some argument and I'll execute and we're going to see our object.
This is our root object, right?
And here you're going to notice we have a params property and that params property is set to an object.
And you'll notice we have the exact key or property here that we specified as our wildcard name in our
roots file.
So we said call this thing ID and capture its value.
So here it is view as captured as ID and told us that the value at the end of that URL, that dynamic
little section is indeed the value.
Five.
Let me just show you, for example, you do not have to follow along with this, but if I decided to
call this something like job, ID save this and refresh in my browser.
You'll notice here if it is a full refresh.
Yep.
You'll notice that now it's called job ID.
So the name is up to us, but whatever we give as a name to that wild card is what view is going to
populate in the params property of my root object.
All right, so let me switch that back to ID.
It represents the same thing.
My job I.
And of course, what I can do here.
Is take this ID and do something with it.
Right?
Like if I want to get the information for a specific job, if I have its ID, which is typically going
to be its database identifier, I can make an API request to the back end and say I want the job with
an idea five.
Give me this piece of information.
But the route remains the same.
And if the user navigates to another root, let's say they go to slash jobs, slash results, maybe
they go to ten, right?
In that case, we're going to get a totally different object right here.
And it has the same params, the same property, but a different value of ten.
I can then take that idea and make a fresh API request so our path stays the same, our route stays
the same, and our fundamental component of the job view stays the same.
But we're getting that dynamic data in the URL.
So right now we're consistently rendering job page for Job five because we returned a value of five
consistently from our computed property.
But let's now make this dynamic.
Let's make our view reflect the actual ID of our job.
So right here, instead of returning five, I want to get my root object and I want to return the value
of its params object.
And then there we know we should have that ID property.
We just saw it.
It's the exact same one as we have here.
So going to that object, go into its root, go into its params, get that ID, return that as my computed
property and we're going to put that into our template.
So now if I go back to my browser, you'll notice we have job page for Job ten and let's say the user
navigates to another, another job 15.
Well now it's job for job 15 and if they have something at the end like 15, you know, account manager
Denver not a problem.
You're going to see that entire section after the slash is going to be captured by that ID pram, which
is available via the root object for us to use in our template or for us to use just general purpose.
As I mentioned, we don't have to necessarily display it for the user to see.
We just have access to that identifier, that part of the URL that makes it unique and we can do something
with it.
All right.
So that is how we create wild cards in our view routes in view router.
And I will see you in the next lesson.